Okay, we're on now.
We're talking to... Isn't it nice?
You say it's more important than what I say.
And we're talking to... May I take your card, please?
Sure.
Regina Minutri is how you pronounce her name.
That's correct.
And you would just... Why don't we just enter the conversation?
You said something about a lovely library in Vancouver.
Oh, the new library in Vancouver?
And you said libraries have never been less dead, which I found an interesting...
Yes, I mean, I think what's happening right now, and I think it's going to happen in the future, with all the technology we have, I think people are beginning to recognize that they can't get a handle on it by themselves, that there's too much out there on the Internet.
And they also realize, I believe, that the information that you get on the Internet is just bits and pieces.
Nobody's going to read a book on the Internet.
It takes too long, it's too hard, the screens aren't good enough, etc.
So the Internet provides you with a source or a place to look.
We'll let that go.
No, it'll go into the message pretty soon.
It provides us with a place to look for something, but I think that the collections of materials
that libraries have, are they just going to be with us?
I don't know if you've seen there's a kind of a funny thing called Update on New Technology, about this new thing called B-O-O-K.
I don't have an author for it.
I didn't write it myself, but I've used these things.
And it calls it bound, organized, orderly knowledge and
random access to information, it's linear, you know, you don't need batteries, sand and water resistant, user friendly, cheap.
You know, all this kind of thing.
It goes as fast as you want it to go.
That's right.
And calls it, of course, the new technology that will really take off.
You know, I carried my computer with me.
It's not here with me today.
It's back in the hotel.
But, you know, after two and a half hours, that thing ran out of power.
Right, and a waste of time.
Yeah, a waste of time.
To begin with.
But, you know, what we're seeing here in San Francisco with the dramatic increases in use in the main library...
We see between 6,000 and 7,000 people a day here, which is about 50... It's almost double, maybe, what they were doing in the old Maine.
I worked in Berkeley for 17 years.
I was the library director there and retired in 1994.
We were seeing there, every year, dramatic increases in circulation and use of the library...
in reference questions asked by people, that I think that the only way that libraries will go away is if we let them.
I think that it would be the neglect of librarians and people who are interested in libraries that would make them go away.
Because the public at large is beginning to realize that there's no way they can buy everything they need, even those who are very rich.
can't go out and buy every book they ever wanted to read or ever thought about.
You can't have every CD-ROM that you want.
You can't be on the internet 24 hours a day.
So libraries, in a manner of speaking, provide a guidepost, an indexing device.
Librarians in our own brains, as you put together the
I used to do a lot of work in reader's advisory.
I read a lot of fiction and enjoy it.
And it was always fun to have a patron come up and say, you know, I've just read this new book by whoever, you know, whether it's... A gentleman.
Yeah, right, a gentleman.
What have you got that's like that?
And you think about it and they say, well, now let's see.
I've just read a novel...
about a Neanderthal man appearing in modern-day Europe.
And, oh, that would be interesting.
And you tell the person a little bit about the book in like a 30-second pre-see, and off they go, you know.
And it's a human connection.
And that's the other thing that libraries give to people, is this human connection.
You can come into the library, you can go look in the stacks.
You don't even have to talk to anybody.
But when you do...
you get a real person who cares, for the most part, about what you're looking for and what you're interested in.
And that's why we say the core of our public library services is our service to the individual, to the person.
That's your philosophy.
That's right.
Personally.
Mm-hmm.
Some of the anxiety expressed that, you know, I've been talking to everybody, and I'm not going to be coy about that either.
You know, I'm looking to do a comprehensive
examination of the... This is a very interesting case study in San Francisco.
I mean, this is a brand new, gorgeous, beautiful, very expensive facility that was built with a tremendous mandate of the citizenry.
And, you know, some people consider maybe there aren't going to be enough people.
Maybe this is... I saw a tape that was produced for the Library of the Future.
It was almost a robotic voice
Oh, I've seen that tape, yeah.
Isn't that amazing?
Yeah, I didn't care for that tape.
And the librarian was a hologram, you know.
Right, right.
I mean, this comes to mind as you're saying, you know, so there is clearly this perception out there that maybe this library is going to be too dependent on machinery and not dependent enough on the people who you have already worked in.
Not this library.
Are very, very important.
And not any library that I've ever worked in.
You know, you can automate the life out of a library.
It's possible.
But if you automate correctly, you allow staff to have more time to interact with the public.
That's the difference.
It's the appropriate use of technology.
And see, where we haven't gotten yet,
We haven't gotten to the point where this thing, this computer that sits here that I use on a daily basis, is a tool to me just as much as the telephone is.
We haven't reached that stage yet.
This is not a god.
This is not an icon.
This has in it what we put in it and gets out of it what we put into it.
If I put garbage in, I get garbage out.
To quote a phrase.
To quote a phrase that's been quoted a million times.
But it's absolutely true.
This thing is only a tool.
The computer is only a tool.
They're no better than... They're essential.
They're essential to my work, too.
But it's not a... It's not a creative tool.
It's the brain connected to the computer connected to the person that makes the difference.
And that's the way I see libraries.
Now, this library has a lot of problems.
There is no question about that.
It's not big enough.
I mean, do you have any, well, I don't want to jump ahead, because that is certainly something I want to talk about.
I'm sorry.
Well, we don't have enough room.
We have some wonderful, beautiful spaces.
Architecturally, they're very pleasing, no question about it.
But we don't have enough room for all the material we have.
There might be lots of reasons for that.
I don't want to throw any cast dispersions on people for one reason or another, but we have a ton of material in Brooks Hall.
Which I'd like to see, by the way.
I'll have somebody, either I'll do it this morning or I'll have Susan Goldstein, she's coming over at 9.45, take you down.
In Brooks Hall, some people say we have treasures, some people say we do not.
But you certainly have books there.
We have a lot of books there.
We have some books there that are not on the catalog.
Those are being gone through by staff to determine which should be cataloged and put on our catalog and which deserve a life somewhere else, aside from this library.
We have a large collection of periodicals there, bound periodicals.
many of which are broken runs.
So we have to decide what's the best use of these periodicals.
We might have a year and a half of one periodical, you know, that's perhaps not useful to the library.
Ten years of a periodical is.
We have the city archives over there, which were discovered when the city moved out of City Hall.
And all that entailed.
And all that entails, that's right.
An archive is a nice phrase for a piece of paper like this.
We have papers from various mayors.
I think we have Mayor Jordan's papers.
I may be wrong on this.
I think we have Mayor Agnose's papers.
We've got artifacts.
We've got some of the artifacts that were found when they excavated for this building.
We have Mayor Rolf's rug.
I mean, we have a collection of them.
Mayor R-O, how do you spell Rolf?
R-O-L-F-E.
Is he a recent mayor?
Oh, no.
He's the mayor that's in the photograph over there when they excavated to build the old main library in the 19— Yeah, Rolf's first name.
One of the history people can give you his first name.
That's not a priority item.
No.
We have a science fiction collection.
We have a gay and lesbian collection that are in storage waiting to be looked at.
We have a collection of sheet music that the library purchased that we haven't been able to do anything with for lack of staff and time.
We have a wonderful archive of gay and lesbian materials, which I understand you were interested in.
Well, I am, because it is, to me, you know...
one of the great opportunities for this city and this library to document and preserve.
This is an interest of mine, you know.
If you don't preserve it, who will?
That's right, that's right.
And we have, not only do we have a collection of gay and lesbian material that was given to us, that has to be gone... By an individual?
Yeah, in Florida.
Do you know the name?
No, I don't have the name.
But Susan Goldstein probably will.
Jim Van Buskirk will, if nobody else.
Are you going to talk to Jim?
I'd like to.
I've blocked the whole name.
Okay, he's not here today.
I would have had him come up and talk to you, but he's not here today.
Will he be here tomorrow?
Yeah.
Anyway, he's the head of the Gay and Lesbian Senate.
He can give you more information on that.
So, to all intents and purposes, we have this beautiful-looking building here, which isn't holding the collections.
And one, you could argue that they didn't have enough shelves, that the architect won.
The architect won.
That's kind of a catchphrase that librarians use.
If the building doesn't come out exactly the way librarians like it, say the architect won.
I've been to the French library, by the way, so, yeah.
It's gorgeous, but— The architect won.
The architect won.
And that's not to downgrade architecture, but it's—we, as a librarian, I look at things with a different viewpoint.
I wish that we could have another 30,000 linear feet of shelving in here, but I don't see that that's possible.
I think that we are going to be in a permanent situation of having to store material in Brooks Hall, which, while it's not attractive, isn't harmful to the material, as far as we can determine now.
Well, you'll probably have to do some environmental things, I would imagine.
Well, we test the humidity and the relative humidity and the temperature frequently, and it's staying within tolerance limits so far.
I don't know what's going to happen with El Nino, the rain situation.
What I want to do over there is get some funding to drop a ceiling, to put up some walls, and to put in some environmental controls if we're going to keep the city archives in there particularly, because these are materials that are fragile.
The bound periodicals don't require special treatment necessarily.
The books that we are discarding because they're no longer needed
you know, 12th and 13th copies of things, things that are falling apart.
We just have to get them out of the building eventually.
I don't have a problem with that, by the way.
You can't keep everything.
Well, you can't keep everything.
No, well, some people think we should, but we can't.
You know, this is, you hear this everywhere, and I don't think that's, well, anyway, we're jumping ahead.
Yeah.
So we have to work out a solution to the Brooks Hall.
I'm not sure if this thing is going, but it's fine.
So we need to work out a solution to the Brooks Hall issues.
We also need to see how we can maximize library shelving in this building right now.
And we have a lot of compact shelving on each floor in the non-public areas.
And that does help a lot.
But we're trying to get as much as possible out on the floor.
so the public has access to it.
You know, that's basically where we are in terms of that.
Backtrack just a second.
You wish you had 30,000 additional.
Did you say linear feet?
Linear feet of shelter.
So that's five miles or six miles.
Yeah.
If I had that, I'd have enough.
So what you're saying is they're six miles short here.
What I'm saying is there's no room for growth.
At all.
That's a great concern, isn't it?
It's a huge concern.
You build a building... The building was full when it opened.
When you build a building like this, you build for at least 20 years of growth.
Or at least that's what I'm planning.
I'll digress a little bit.
I retired three years ago from Berkeley.
We just passed a bond measure in
November to enlarge and seismically retrofit and refurbish our central library, which is a national landmark building.
And they're planning for at least a 30 percent increase in shelving.
Now, they say here there was a half again.
I mean, they said they had a 50 percent increase in shelving.
What happened, I think, was that they found all kinds of materials squirreled away that they didn't realize they had.
Over there?
Over there, in remote storage, things that were out in the 1989 earthquake, things that were suddenly given to the library, new collections that came in.
That's what I've heard.
I believe some of it.
I know the archives were new.
Yeah.
Of course, the archives are still over there.
They're not here.
You're in Brooks Hall.
Brooks Hall is downstairs, frankly.
Had you been in a loop, let's say, you know— You mean if I had been here at the time it was being designed?
Yeah.
Would you have liked all that glass and space?
Probably not.
I would probably have gone for a more mundane approach with floors straight across.
I do understand why.
I mean, it is a grand space.
It's a beautiful space.
It doesn't have to be six floors high, however.
You know, but I can't... I wasn't here.
It's too hard to... I'm not even asking... I'm not mentioning personality.
Yeah.
No, no, I know you're not.
But you never know what decision you're going to make when you're in the middle of the fray.
You know?
I like the exterior of the building.
I do like the atrium.
It makes you feel good when you walk in.
I wish, however, that the Larkin Street entrance and the Fulton Street entrance were better designed so that we could utilize that space for library materials.
As we are now, because of our security requirements, we have to control the entrance and the exit.
And so the main entrance is turned into the Grove Street entrance, rather than the Larkin Street entrance.
The Larkin Street entrance was the one that was proposed to be the grand main entrance to the library, and that's not working.
The acoustics are wonderful.
I don't mean the cube either.
Well, they're hard surfaces.
I understand if we were to put some sort of sound-absorbing material underneath the... When you look up from the first floor, there's a...
the periodical room juts out and that is where I from what I understand the sound engineers say the sound just kind of bounces ricochets on and off and if we had some sound observing material which could be paint which could be a spray thing that it would significantly lessen it also if they had
maintained the windows till lower down in the building, we wouldn't have quite so much coming up.
The problem we face is we have what we have.
And let me just interrupt Jacqueline Sanson, who is in charge of the collections of the French Library, and she's been around for a while.
And I said, you know, there's been tremendous criticism in the press about this place.
You know, you've got glass.
The books are up here.
You know, you have to bring the books from the skyscrapers down.
How do you react to this?
And she said, you know, this country spent two billion francs on this as a commitment to our national library.
And this is what I have to work with.
She said, I can't.
I can't take the time to talk about something that I have no control over.
This is what they've given me, this is what I have to work with, and I'm going to make the best of it.
I love that answer.
That's my answer, too.
What can that woman possibly move?
This is what I've got.
Like what Popeye says, I am what I am.
And we have to make the best possible use of it.
We need to, in some way, I think...
work with the material in Brooks Hall, which for us is easy to get to because it's right off our loading dock.
And we can page those materials for the public.
It's a shame they're not out there for the public to get to, but...
That's life.
You know, I can say I would have done it differently, but that's also life.
That's history.
You're damn lucky to have Brooks Hall, though.
We're damn lucky to have it.
We're damn lucky to have it so close and easy.
Yeah, I mean, what if?
You didn't have that.
I have no idea what we'd do.
I think we would have to, you know, Mayor Brown suggested several months ago that the Asian Art Museum not move into the old main library and we keep it.
That's not a bad idea.
Well, it's not going to happen.
I've covered politics before in my earlier life.
No, that's not going to happen because the Asian Art Museum, I mean, there's already been contracts signed.
It's on its way.
But we're lucky we have Brooks Hall.
The challenge is to make Brooks Hall usable.
I don't think we can make it a public space because of the way entrances are.
to that space.
But we can make it a space from which material can be retrieved, and that's important.
I'm sure we can arrange a 24-hour, you know, 24-hour turnaround for people, perhaps even quicker.
But I wouldn't want to guarantee anything but 24 hours at this point.
And now, where are you now in terms of?
I'm in my fifth week here, so I'm in the middle of finding out what's going on.
I'm also in the middle of a budget crisis.
And so my attention is extremely fragmented.
And fragile, I thought you were going to say fragile.
A little fragile, but fragmented.
Frayed, perhaps.
Schizo.
Oh, yes.
Yeah, right.
So we're adding, we've ordered some more shelving.
You probably may have read about our shelving backlog that we had.
That was really bad.
I think we're now down to where we are current.
in every area in which we have space to shelf.
And we're doing a major shift.
We're just completing a major shift of books.
Just about every book in this library will be moved, aside from the first stop down on the first floor in the children's room.
Just about everything else has been shifted and moved in some way.
According to a new scheme?
According to a new scheme with adding shelving.
What kind of a scheme?
In this subject category?
No, no, no, no.
They're still in Dewey order.
But we added some shelving and we're moving things around because, well, you take like the 900s, 910s travel, 920s biography.
The 900s is the biggest possible section of Dewey.
They were shelves were so tight that the books that were out in the 900 couldn't be shelved back on those shelves because there wasn't any place to put them.
So we had to add some shelving and we
We've found shelving from the old main, and we've brought it over here.
We've used it.
We've put new panels in front of it.
It looks fine.
And we'll be, I think they should be completing that shift next week or the week after.
We've got some shelving coming in that we had to purchase, and the completion of the shift depends on when this new shelving arrives here and is put up.
But once that happens, we should be current on our shelving everywhere, and we should be shelving within 72 hours of a book being returned.
That's our goal.
Do you have a sense of how many books are in this building now?
In this building?
Oh, over half a million.
Easy.
Probably about... I'd have to... Frankly, my answer to that won't be accurate.
But is this something that we could follow up on, maybe...
Oh, yeah, you can... It's a valid question.
It's a sure valid question.
If the building is full and it was filled basically the day it opened, so how many books are we talking about?
A lot.
Yeah, a lot, but how many in Brooks Hall?
Well, Brooks Hall has about 75,000 ground periodicals
and about 10,000 or 15,000 books, and then there's those special collections, maybe another 10,000 books.
I'll add about 100,000, plus or minus.
So half a million, and this tape I'm going back to, with Kandala that's quoted on it,
He projected two and a half million items in this new book.
Items, yes.
Items are real different.
Okay, I think you said books, but I'll grant them the items.
It won't be two and a half million items here.
I don't think so.
I can give you the square feet.
Okay.
Give me anything.
Oh, here we go.
Now, 376
376,000 usable square feet, 36 miles of stacks.
That figure was challenged.
Yeah, that I don't know.
36 miles probably includes all the compact shovels, I would think.
But it's supposed to go to an
It's supposed to go to an 8.3 earthquake.
Let's see if anything else has anything more on here.
It says here, in addition to more than a million books.
But you don't think there's a million books?
That could be.
Let's see.
I know I had at Berkeley
With 37,500 usable square feet, we had 250,000, so it could be a million here.
But I don't have anything that tells me that right here in front of me as a statistic.
At some point, this book is going to be published in 1999.
We can get that for you.
This is not something I'm writing on deadline.
But, you know, I think it's an important figure.
I know there's about 100,000 plus or minus in Brooks Hall.
Okay.
What do you see as your role here?
I mean, you've already said on record that you really, and your card says acting city librarian, and you see yourself as an interim person.
Yeah.
Although I think there's love for you to stay.
I'm not betraying anything that's happening.
I mean, let's put it this way.
I asked Coulter, how's the search going?
And, you know, what search?
I mean, you know, they're very happy, it seems to me.
Well, so far, I haven't killed anybody and nobody's killed me.
Let's put it that way.
But I retired three years ago and I enjoy being retired.
You're a young woman.
I'm 60.
Well, I'm 54.
No, I'm not that young.
No, I see my role here as a couple of things.
First of all,
trying to do a little bit of bridging and healing over what had happened.
And I know that sounds a little touchy-feely, but basically it is.
It's kind of mending the fences with the staff and improving communication, being a little more open about communication, about everything.
When I know something, I tell somebody.
If I don't know it, I tell you I don't know it.
Improving communication with the branch libraries, paying attention to the branch libraries, which have kind of been neglected over the last couple of years.
The branches are 70% of our business.
You know, this is a busy building, yeah, but out there in this city there are 26 branch libraries, and they're all busy too.
Well, there was a proposal to close a good many of them.
You don't close branch libraries.
Not in this town.
It's like closing schools.
But it was on the table, therefore.
It was on the table a number of years ago.
In truth, we have many branches that are very close to one another.
And if you were starting all over again, you might not have that many.
But we're not starting all over again.
They're here.
They have constituents.
The constituents are active.
The citizens are willing to pay for them.
The citizens use them.
Ergo, they get them.
We have about 10 o'clock.
There are a number of areas I want to cover.
I see myself as an interim, yes.
But I don't see myself as a caretaker.
I see myself as an interim person who is trying to move the library ahead.
What I say to people is, okay, we spilled the milk on the floor.
It stinks.
Let's clean it up and move on.
That's basically my attitude.
If there are processes that need to be put in place that make things work better, let's do that.
If there are things that have to be done that make things work better, we'll look at it.
If there are procedures that need to be changed, let's look at that.
We have policies we need to adopt, let's deal with that.
I'm working with the foundation for funding to do things that city funding can't do for us.
I'm working with the commission on policies.
I'm working with the staff.
on bringing everybody back together and understanding what's happening.
I think it's going to take a year.
Okay.
Steve Coulter indicated, almost even without my pressing the issue, but he feels that a lot of the problem here is with the unionized librarians.
I mean, he had some pretty harsh words to say about them.
He's had some, they've had some difficulties.
And he repeated the white women thing.
I said, geez, you really want to, I mean, I've seen that conversation.
Oh, that was a quote that he— And he repeated it, and he said, that's fine, I stand by it.
And so I said, well, those are your words.
I think that— I wonder if that's the way to get things fixed, though.
Well, I believe that Mr. Coulter has been a very strong chair of the commission, and a very effective chair of the commission.
I think that Ken Dallin did not help the situation.
I think that the union got involved, and in some instances the union was correct.
I think that the commission has been embattled.
I think that there are issues with which the commission and the union has differed.
One might not say that the union was right every time or the commission was right every time.
I think there was a lot of, hey, here the union might have had a really good point.
Well, here the commission has a good point.
You know what I mean?
Not everybody's right.
Like the BART strike.
It isn't all BART management, and it's not all BART employees.
I'm glad nobody's asked me.
You know, from the East Coast, I say, I don't stick my nose at other people's labor problems.
Yeah, you got it.
I am trying to work very closely with the union to resolve some issues.
And what I've found, and I have a lot of experience with unionized libraries,
about 15 years of it in Berkeley.
And I found that if you talk to them regularly, if you ask for their input before you do something, if you give them a chance to tell you their side of the story before something happens, then you're not always going to agree.
You'll always have differences.
But you won't have the kind of clash that I've been seeing taking place here.
Well, there is concern about staff reductions.
That's right.
And I guess there have been staff reductions.
There have been what is commonly called attrition.
And that means when somebody resigns or retires, you don't replace them.
And I'm in a budget crisis right now where I can't hire anybody.
Literally, I cannot.
I'm going to have to do some shifting around.
I'm going to have to
take some real hard looks and maybe do some reorganization in the main library and put more people out on public desks that maybe haven't been.
And I have to work out something with the mayor's office.
I'm working with the mayor and the controller right now.
We have a $3 million problem.
That's a lot of money.
And over $2 million of it, like $2.1 million in staff.
That's what I need.
I need another $2.1 million today to have the kind of staffing that we think we need.
Do you have a number of what your staff is?
Right now, we say our full-time equivalent is about 540, plus or minus, with about 870 people, because we have a lot of people who work part-time.
And we need another 40 or so positions, full-time equivalent.
I don't think we're going to get it.
I think if I'm lucky, I'll get half of it.
Mr. Coulter also suggested this problem with Reshelman.
He suggested that it might even have been, in his word, a case of sabotage.
I don't think so.
I don't think anybody's looking to protect their jobs.
I think that they were overwhelmed.
I think that there wasn't enough space to put the books back.
And I think that they were just totally overwhelmed by the popularity of this building when it first opened in last April.
I think that
They had planned for a significant increase in business, but they didn't envision the type of increase that they got.
And I think right now they are doing, I think we're really working very well.
We've just hired 40 new pages, and we need those.
That was a special dispensation, by the way, from the mayor's office.
And are these distinct from the category of shelvers?
These are pages.
We don't have shelvers.
But they were going to be.
We don't have going to be.
We have pages.
We have library pages.
That is not under discussion at this moment.
Because I can see where that would be a problem.
Well, if you created a new class, you'd have a two-tier system.
Now, you could create a new class.
You could have a two-tier system.
But you'd have to carefully delineate what the lower-paid individuals do that differentiates them from the higher-paid individuals.
Because I don't believe in two-tier pay arrangements.
I think you have equal pay for equal work, frankly.
The Supreme Court seems to like it.
The EPS guys won that one, too.
Yeah, right.
In all honesty, we pay our library pages a lot of money.
It's $12.30 to start.
That's very good.
It's very good money if you are a student and there's nothing better if you're a student.
And most of our jobs are 15 hours a week, so they're really not designed for people using this as a lifelong job.
Although we have a few full-time people.
It's a hell of a job, right.
I worked for this library when I went to college, but they paid me two and a quarter.
But at any rate, no, I'm not entering into that one yet.
We've just got to get the new pages and get the books done.
But they're really almost finished with the shift.
We've got to talk about, you know, your attitude on deaccessioning and the books that went, you know, the infamous landfill situation.
Oh, God only knows what happened with those.
I wasn't here.
I'm not even going to be... I can't be responsible for what was done.
Your reaction to it?
Well, I understand... See, this is... In every other library where I've worked, in the library, discarded material.
Now, there is some material that you discard...
that you hold like this with two fingers of one hand and dump into a trash can.
There are other materials that are in fairly good condition that you discard because they're not popular anymore.
You don't have room for them.
And in every other library I've worked, the friends of the library take those and they resell them.
And there's no issue.
You know, the public doesn't get angry.
The public is perfectly happy.
with seeing the books getting used again.
The public doesn't like to see you throw away books.
Here, the friends of the library have found that in their book sales, they can't sell library discards.
And so they don't accept library discards from us.
So we have this mountain of library discards happening.
I'm looking into whether or not South Africa needs books that they might be able to use from us that we would be happy to ship to them.
At their expense, probably.
Other friends will even pay for it.
Bosnia.
You're actively looking into it?
We're just beginning to look at this.
I've asked staff to look into it.
We have this Adopt-a-Book program here where a local group can come in and go through the discars and pick what they want.
That's not been really successful.
And what I find happens with that, somewhere they always find some sort of treasure, and, you know, then big headlines in the newspaper, library discards treasures, you know, this kind of... I've talked to a few of these people.
You know, some of them are treasures, some of them are not.
No, I actually have not seen a real treasure yet.
I haven't either.
But I happen to...
have an eye for treasures, you know.
I wrote a book on that set.
Right.
And people love, people find fascinating things in bookstores that are treasures, you know.
They buy for a buck.
But what bothers me, I guess, is nobody can tell you the title.
I mean, there's
There doesn't even seem to be a record of the books that were... Probably not.
I don't want people who went to Auschwitz and we can use people a record of the name.
I mean, a book is a living thing to a lot of us.
Well, I'll tell you, once you discard something, first of all, if it's on the... It doesn't seem like it was systematic discarding.
It seems like it was wholesale dumping.
Could have been.
I mean, to call a spade a spade.
Yeah, it could have been, frankly.
This library didn't weed for years.
They suffered from the fact that they moved from that building across the street over here without doing a systematic weeding program.
And so then there was just all kinds of chaos, I understand.
I don't know how true this is.
These are just stories I've heard.
Who knows?
Panic, chaos.
But if you don't have a systematic weeding program so that you are evaluating the collection on a regular, systematic basis,
And we've done all the work for it.
We've got a collection maintenance program.
We have a collection development.
Staff has worked on these for years.
But what they haven't done, and they always say they don't have time to do, is they don't have time to do the weeding.
Just as you weed your garden, you've got to weed your collection.
And I found that in Berkeley, if you didn't stay on people's backs about it, it didn't happen.
It's not a lot of fun.
It's the easiest thing to let slide.
It's the easiest thing to let slide, and that is what happened here.
And that's not the whole problem, but it contributes to it.
It seems to me that there are probably about six or eight different factors, all of which in themselves are not huge, but by putting them together got the library to this issue where they said thousands of books were destroyed.
Who the hell knows?
I don't know.
I know when you've got a catalog and you pull catalog cards, the way we were always taught in library school to pull catalog cards was, well, this one doesn't have a pocket, but, you know, you go to the catalog, you pull out the six or eight cards that go with it, you stick it in the pocket, you send the book away.
There goes the record.
Now, the only thing that the library might even have paid attention to, if they took the trouble to do it,
would be the accession records.
The accession records.
Yeah, well, a lot of times if people kept accession records, if people kept shelf lists, that's what it's called, sometimes if you were really paying attention, you'd go in and you'd cross off the ones that had been discarded.
I don't even know if that was done here.
I don't know if there was a shelf list.
In terms of those that were on the catalog, unless there was a last...
You would not know, because there are no cards to pull.
Or you'd know that there wasn't a copy anymore.
You wouldn't know which.
You know, it's wiped.
It goes, it's erased.
Do you have a sense of the feeling of a public library, a city public library, as being a repository as a research library?
This isn't a research library.
Even in any areas?
Might be in San Francisco history.
Might be a research library in art and music.
But we are not a research library.
There isn't a research library, I believe, west of the Mississippi.
If you look at the criteria... In terms of a public library?
In terms of a library.
I think a library is a research library.
Yes, it is, but it's... In terms of a research library?
Not necessarily.
There is no public library that's a research library.
And San Francisco isn't one.
And we don't have the money to become one.
Because in order to become a research library, there's something called the Association of Research Libraries.
And there are certain criteria they have for depth of collections and for the kinds of things that are kept.
And we don't meet that.
What's that about association?
A-R-L, Association of Research Libraries.
Why don't you?
I think that would be useful for you.
Yeah.
Yes, in terms of San Francisco history, sure.
We should have the best possible collection available.
We should have an excellent collection of Californiana as well, and I think we do.
We have some rare books, but we don't have a rare book library, per se.
Nothing like what UC has, for instance.
Or the New York Public Library.
Or the Boston Public Library, right.
Or Cleveland, or Chicago.
Right.
We are not that big a library.
San Francisco isn't that big a city, if you think about it.
We're a good reference library.
That's the difference.
We can probably answer 95% of the questions that somebody might come in to ask here, and answer that at some level of depth.
But we would not be able to provide research materials to
but we wouldn't be able to provide research material at the same level.
In other words, we could answer your question, you know, who killed Cockwabin, but we wouldn't be able to give you the exhaustive material for the background of that particular question.
We're probably the library, public library,
Northern California, we're probably the strongest public library in Northern California in terms of collection size and breadth and depth.
We're not as big as Los Angeles, you know.
That's a much bigger city.
Much bigger city.
Have you visited that one?
Not yet.
You ought to go there.
They did an extremely nice job in taking a 1927-29 building
which was a landmark in adding on.
They had a fire, too.
Yeah, they had a terrible fire.
But they were in worse shape than we were.
Oh, they were in really very circus shape.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm going down in a couple of weeks to talk to the director.
But, you know, they have more depth than we do.
We are a popular, well, we are a number of things.
In the branch libraries, we're a popular library.
We're a reference library for high school students and for use by interested citizens.
We're a library that serves a lot of children.
You know, our Discovery Center here in this main library is a wonderful place.
And it's particularly wonderful with the increase in population of children down here from, you know...
Southeast Asia, yeah, because there's no place for these kids to go.
We're a pretty good reference library here.
We provide a lot of quick information, and we do a lot of programming.
So we're kind of, I would say, pretty much middle-of-the-road urban library, with all of the urban library problems, all the problems that an urban library faces.
So usage of material or non-usage is a criterion that probably might influence whether or not a book is kept.
If a book hasn't been read, say, in two or three or four or five years.
That would be a criteria, yeah.
And for us also, in certain areas, the age of the material.
You know, particularly in science.
Why would we be wanting to have a book that says someday we will get to the moon?
You know?
It's not where we want to be necessarily.
You're writing some social history, though, and you want to know what people thought about that.
That's true, but then we can get that for you.
We can interlibrary loan material from anywhere in the country, and we do.
And that's the kind of material.
There's a regional storage facility over in Richmond that the University of California has for its little-used material.
We can borrow from them just like that, no problems.
It takes a couple of weeks sometimes, but we can get it.
What I find is that the major urban libraries, like the large supermarkets, have 80% of the use of the collection comes from 20% of the collection.
And you'll find that in a large supermarket, 80% of their sales are 20% of the items that they stock.
That's just the way it goes.
The other 80%
are there and are used a lot less.
And that's where the decision to weed is so important.
And that's why weeding a collection has to be done by people who know the collection, know the use patterns, and understand the community.
And this, again, is something that you're insisting upon and hoping to implement even more?
We're trying to train our staff on how we want to do this.
We're doing a lot of staff training.
My understanding also is that a lot of the subject areas were kind of like literature was folded into humanities and stuff like that.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm not sure how that works yet.
I'm still—this is, as I said, my fifth week.
Does that concern you at all, that kind of—?
Well, one of the things— It has to do with how many service desks you want to staff.
We have five floors.
Well, we have six, actually, but I won't count the local history room up here as a service desk per se.
But in terms of the five floors beneath us, periodicals on five, then we have government docs, and we have social sciences, and then we have general collections.
A general reference on the third floor is the busiest of the desks.
That also has the teenagers.
That has a lot there.
I'm not sure it necessarily dumbs down a collection because... Well, if it dilutes it... No, it doesn't dilute the collection.
What it does is mean that you have fewer service points.
Therefore, when you have fewer service points, you can staff them better.
But you are requiring perhaps one person to be an expert in a lot of areas.
We do that in the branch libraries too.
But the branch is more of a satellite library.
Yeah, this is the main library, and people learn how to do stuff.
People are pretty smart.
We've got pretty good staff.
Oh, I'm very impressed.
Well, you should be.
They're pretty good people.
But we have to broaden their knowledge bases sometimes.
And we cannot have eight little service points with different staff assigned to those eight service points.
We just don't have the staff to do it.
Even at the optimum level of staffing, we don't have the staff.
And we're not configured to do it.
So I don't know what the percentage of use is of first stop.
But from what I can see, it must be pretty heavy.
Okay.
If you've told me what your sense of your role is, I think.
And you did say there were a lot of problems.
You're hoping that...
You said you've given yourself a year to get this thing?
Well, I originally told him six months.
I think it's going to take a year.
I don't know how long it's going to take.
It depends on how deeply I get involved with all this stuff.
Weren't you considered for this job originally?
Mm-hmm.
Well, it's kind of ironic.
Actually, what a friend of mine said to me, she said...
It's kind of ironic that you're going in to clean up the mess you wouldn't have had if they'd hired you.
And you're confident that that mess wouldn't have?
I don't think so.
If you look at my record and where I've been and what I've done.
Your record totally speaks for itself, by the way.
Thank you.
You know, sometimes after a whole record of screwing things up, they do something really
You see, nobody can complain.
I'm just speaking now.
No one has, as far as I know.
I've covered the waterfront, so to speak.
You're a book person.
That's so important.
And the perception of Mr. Dowling, I think, fairly or unfairly, is that... He isn't.
He's not.
No, he does read, though.
He just doesn't consider himself a book person.
I called the Chronicle book editor, whom I've known for a number of years, and I said, Pat, I left her an email message, actually, and I said, you know, I know you know I'm here.
I'd like to review some books.
I think it'd be nice to have this A Library and review books for the whatever.
And she said, oh, that'd be great, but how about an interview?
I saw her piece.
Did you see this piece?
Yeah.
And I just finished reviewing... In fact, I got it off the internet.
How do you like that?
Yeah, isn't that great?
I just finished reviewing this.
Ah.
Which is, she said, I hope you don't mind commercial fiction.
I said, how... Is this what you tell me, the book you reviewed?
Rough Justice.
It's kind of a little detail that I like.
By Lisa... Scottolione.
Scottolione.
Rough Justice.
Who publishes it?
Mrs. Harper.
Harper Collins.
It's a female lawyer detective.
Yeah, but you're a reader.
Yeah.
Well, hell, I take Bart to work when it works.
These are the kinds of details I like.
Yeah, I love, she said to me, I hope you don't mind commercial fiction.
I said, Pat, I read commercial fiction.
For me, it's what I read to relax.
Yeah, this is what I read on the train every morning.
How are you getting to work these days?
I drove in this morning.
Monday I took AC Transit.
It took me two and a half hours to get here.
I've been to Berkeley twice this week and had no problem.
I mean, of course, I've gone over when everybody's coming this way and coming back at midday.
I'm going back tomorrow.
In fact, the gentleman from the gay lesbian, maybe that'll be Friday because I think tomorrow's a full day in Berkeley for me.
You'll be around on Friday?
Jim Van Beskirk?
I think so.
Let me...
Just to go back briefly, you said you don't see this as a research library.
However, to go to something that Mr. Coulter said, and he generated this, you know, when he visited libraries, he saw the Schomburg, which I write about in here, and he said, that's what I want.
gay Schomburg.
That's quite conceivable for us.
Well, it's conceivable, but I said, you understand what you're saying.
The Schomburg is undoubtedly the great African-American research collection of, you know, death.
And we're not there.
So when you're committing yourself, it's not enough to have subtitles that have been written
by gay men and lesbians that, you know, that's not it.
You have to have research materials.
You have to have materials that will encourage a scholar to come from someplace in the world
and to get material here that she or he can't get anyplace else.
That's what the Gay Schomburg would be.
That's right, and it would require significantly more room than we're able to give it at this moment.
No, I think that affinity room, as pretty as it is, that's not about to house a major research.
No.
We do have, and Jim can show you these things, I was looking for his phone number and I realized this is before they opened here.
Oh, I'll find it.
But, you know, he's not in today, is that right?
That's right.
I know he'll be in tomorrow.
Tomorrow will be the whole day.
But maybe you could give him a call.
Okay.
Yeah, maybe I can.
And I think we're coming to the end.
I could talk to you all day.
Let's see.
Jim's.
I'm really worried that this isn't an accurate number.
I have 557... No, this is the right number.
557... Okay.
557... 4566.
4566.
That's Jim... Van Buscook.
Okay.
So to get back, however, to that, so you think that that is something that could happen?
And of course, by saying that, then you also have to commit yourself to...
committing funds.
Absolutely.
Like the Ginsberg collection, which would have been a wonderful archive here, but that went to Stanford and that cost them a million dollars.
That's right.
If we commit funds, I mean, what we're looking at here is that if we chose to become a research center in terms of gay and lesbian life and times and whatever, whether it's in the United States, whether it's in the West Coast, or whether it's gay and lesbian
the whole thing.
I think we would have to look very carefully at outside funding, at private funding, at an endowment, that kind of thing.
It wouldn't be the first and it won't be the last either.
We'd also have to look at how we were going to store this.
I think one of the things that Ken had in mind was a lot of digitizing so that things could be accessible and stored, etc.,
Well, there are copyright issues in digitizing material and fair use, and that hasn't even been looked at yet.
Which is another aspect of this book I'm writing, which is really the library of the future.
I've spent two days at Cornell, for instance, leading the world of this.
And they're doing it.
You have to get permissions.
But they're sitting down.
If they're looking at a book and it's going to be discarded, it's going to be digitized, or even if it's going to be disposed of, it goes through layers.
This woman that's in charge of this, she wrote the regs on it.
The committee, it's like, who's going to get the heart?
They really apply it.
That's the way it ought to be.
They said, you can't keep every book.
No, there's no way.
Not even L.C.
keeps everything they get.
L.C.
does not keep them.
I'm going to see Diane Kresch down there in a couple weeks at their presentation unit, you know, and a lot of stuff doesn't make the cut.
But yeah, you know, Paul LeClaire at the New York Public Library, you know, he's on the other side.
He's almost done.